# Rock Paper Scissors Project

## Overview: 
In this unit, coders will create a Rock, Paper, Scissors game. The Rock, Paper, Scissors game will take user choice, generate a computer choice, and display the winner to the screen. To create this project, coders will use jQuery to take user input and display data, the Math Library to generate a random choice, and conditionals determine the winner.

## Day 1

#### Planning
- [ ] Complete the project planning document.
#### Set-Up
- [x] Go to the repository at https://github.com/ScriptEdcurriculum/rockpaperscissors
- [ ] Fork this repository to your github account and clone to a new workspace
- [ ] Add, commit, and push your changes
- [ ] Make your site live on gh-pages

### HTML
- [ ] Add any more HTML elements you will need to the page

### JavaScript
- [ ] Add a click handler that displays the value of the input within the div with the id “userChoice”

#### Wrap
- [ ] Push your changes!
- [ ] Save and submit your website using the link on the Daily Session Document.

## Day 2

### Javascript 

- [ ] Outside of your click handler, declare 3 variables (userChoice, computerChoice and winner) and assign them values of empty strings
- [ ] In your click handler, declare a randomNumber variable that will hold a random number generated by a Math function
- [ ] In your click handler, store the input value in the userChoice variable	
- [ ] In your click handler, display userChoice to the screen
#### Wrap
- [ ] Push your changes!

## Day 3

## JavaScript
- [ ] Write a conditional statement which given the number range of randomNumber assigns ‘rock’, ‘paper’ or ‘scissors’ to the computerChoice variable 
- [ ] Display the computerChoice to the screen
- [ ] Write conditional statements that compare the userChoice to the computerChoice to determine the winner of the game
- [ ] Display the winner to the screen in the result div
- [ ] Clear the input value once a result is displayed

#### Wrap
- [ ] Push your changes!

## Projects Extensions:
* Validate input so that it will return “Not valid input” if the user types in a wrong choice. 
* Will accept any form of a word regardless of capitalization (i.e. “Rock” “rock” roCk”)
* Will keep track of total wins and losses, until the page refreshes. 
* Create a game with more variety in throwing options. Example: [Rock-Paper-Scissors-Lizard-Spock](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rock-paper-scissors-lizard-Spock)

## References/Tools
* [Advanced Reference Table]()
* [Script Tag](http://javascript.crockford.com/script.html)
* [How Jquery Works](http://learn.jquery.com/about-jquery/how-jquery-works/)
* [JQuery Events](http://api.jquery.com/category/events/)
* [Math.random](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Math/random)
